[Music]
we begin in Gaza where entire
neighborhoods have been reduced to
Rubble at least 1,100 Palestinians have
been killed during a Relentless campaign
of Israeli strikes gaza's sole power
plant has run out of fuel and medicines
and essential supplies are also running
out humel s has more from
Gaza
a woman gives her baby a final kiss
before she's or he stucken away to an
early
grave one glimpse of the tragedy
spreading through Gaza since Saturday
Palestinians are bearing the brunt of
War on a scale they haven't seen
before there's been no let up in the
Israeli bombardment of The Enclave on
Wednesday these aerial shot charts show
the extent of the
devastation Israeli air strikes have
reduced buildings to rubble and sent
people scrambling for
safety homes and businesses destroyed
phone and internet services cut and
water and electricity supplies
interrupted we were residents of what
was once alarama the entire area was
level to the
ground this is total destru total
Annihilation hundreds of Palestinians
have been killed and thousands
injured graa hospital is one of the
roughly 20 hospitals in the Gaza Strip
and it's at full capacity it doesn't
have enough staff or medicine to treat
the number of wounded another worry is a
lack of fuel to operate the
generators Israel's total Siege means no
supplies can enter
Gaza look behind you along those streets
and alleys hundreds are killed and
buried under the debris we have been
abandoned by the Arabs the whole world
is watching in silence tens of thousands
of Palestinians have lost their homes
but they have nowhere to go the border
crossings with Israel and Egypt are
closed food and water supplies are
running low meaning not only they are
facing the threat of bombs and bullets
but also of hunger and thirst with
entire neighborhoods r
and fears of an Israeli ground Invasion
Aid agencies are calling for
humanitarian corridors and for regional
and international
intervention yid Al jazer
Gaza T Abu AUM is inside Gaza for us and
it's just gone 1 p.m. there it's almost
a complete blackout behind you can you
just explain what it is like that who
still has power and how people are
coping
well uh the after the run out of fuel
for the O uh Power Plant station inside
the Gaza Strip in terms of generating
electricity Gaza right now as you can
see behind me right now is uh sink in
darkness that uh the majority of areas
in Gaza Strip uh doesn't have any kind
of electric current so it means that uh
the the catastrophic conditions of the
humanitarian aspect inside the gasa
strip is dictating at the same time now
the majority of Palestinians are
depending on some alternative sources of
energy that might be also uh run out of
uh of service during the coming hours as
the crisis continues as well uh now in
this hard the the humanitarian
conditions gazers are trying to invest
in every single source of energy or even
source of food supplies to be used as
long as they can in order to avoid more
deterioration in their conditions now
obviously in regards to power especially
in the in the coming days what is the
greatest concern looking ahead from this
point
on well the growing concern for the
majority of gazans that the continuation
of uh borders and uh borders shuttering
and the prevention of the inry of the
humanitarian AIDS and even the basic
needs for Gant for living could be the
the worst shadow that Palestinians are
really afraid of and the majority of
them are facing a looming of a
humanitarian crisis that will even be
deteriorating of the current situation
will goes on and will go on and the
majority of human rights organization
and even the World Health Organization
has called The International Community
to open humanitarian corridors to help
Palestinians in their condition so as
the as the crisis continues inside the
Gaza STP Palestinians are in a great
fear full of frustration and depression
in terms of the ongoing crisis of the
enclaved
territory after 5 days of of living uh
with this of bombardments from Israel
into the strip I mean has that impaired
Hamas at all from being able to launch
its own rockets and
return all right uh uh oh my gosh it was
so close for us that way this explosion
has been right now here uh inside the
Gaza strip after the Israeli warships
had launched uh bages of uh let's say uh
strikes in the uh towards the uh Gaza uh
city as well now let's come back to the
original question that is does the
Israeli strike affector in the Hamas
movement ability to uh to keep launching
rockets in fact uh the at 900 a.m. at
9:00 p.m. tonight uh the uh the uh the
Palestinian Fighters launched dozens of
bages of Rockets towards the Israeli
settlements uh own retaliation to what
is happening inside the Gaza Strip and
from time to time we can hear even the
sound of the Rockets firing from the
Gaza Strip towards the adjacent
settlement of Israel okay thank you so
much uh for that that is TQ Abu AUM for
us inside Gaza thank
you Maran jalani director general of
Palestine red cresant Society joins us
now from rala thank you very much for
taking the time to speak to us here on
Al jazer now I understand first of all a
number of your people were killed today
can you explain exactly what happened
where they were and and how they were
killed yes thank you uh these are the
the darkest days for the medical teams
and specifically for Palestine red
crescent emergency medical volunteers
and staff today we lost four four of our
colleagues three of them got a direct
hat uh while they were attending to some
of the
injured ER in the jabalia area the
fourth the fourth
person went to attend to a a number of
people who were injured and who needed
medical attention and we had in this
case we had
coordinated this Mission with with the
international Committee of the Red Cross
we were given the green light to go
ahead to that area because it was on the
border area in the east of Gaza mhm
while they were attending and they were
putting one dead body into Into the Dead
bags one of our Medics was shot straight
in the back and through the
heart and obviously he he we lost the
fourth person in less half in less than
half an hour this is a very very tragic
situation our people are stressed out
they are exhausted and we have never
seen such atrocities we've never seen
such a deliberate targeting in this
manner of medical missions who are
fulfilling a humanitarian assistance to
the people who need ex that's exactly
what I wanted to ask you about do you
believe it is deliberate targeting cuz I
IM that your your people are uh wearing
you know very obvious medical uh red
cresant Society uh paraphernalia that
makes them easily identify identifiable
as medical
workers a true our cars are
clearly the signs the emblem that is
protected under international law is
visible from land and air that we have
the we have numbers on top of the cars
the ambulances and pcas cars who are
communicated to the Israeli
authorities a there is no way to
mistaken the teams the medical teams
with their protective emblem their their
vest their uniform our cars
obviously and confuse them with anything
else but this is not an isolated
incident we have reported since the
beginning of of this uh this crisis in
the last 5 days more than 30 violations
not only in Gaza but also on the West
Bank
including live bullet fired at our
ambulances we Face harassments we Face
intimidation our teams are beaten up our
teams the guns are pointed to the faces
of our Medical Teams at checkpoints
there are so many violations against
those paramedics in every Mission they
try to go and help those people the sick
and the wounded and these are deliberate
and we have communicated this to all
International organizations we have
complained we have raised the issue of
the of the protection of our teams and
the necessity for the the the
conflicting parties to respect
international law and respect the
mission of our Medical Teams now we know
First Responders uh the first to run
into the face of danger but does this
make you rethink or make your teams
rethink doing that in in this scenario
when you do feel like you are being
deliberately
targeted believe me after the killing of
those four
people this was the worst moment in in
the entire history of our society in the
entire history of this long conflict our
people were devastated they were crying
they were hugging each other and they
didn't know what to do
except to wipe their tears and go out
again and face those atrocities this
danger this total IGN ignorance of or
ignoring of the international law and of
the medical missions we we have raised
this issue with all International
organizations the pro the problem today
is Israel and the Israeli authorities
are not listening to any not only not
listening to the anybody there is no
mechanism at all to coordinate medical
missions so they shut off all the
international organizations including
International Committee of the Red Cross
including the United Nations when we ask
them how can we coordinate so that our
teams are protected how can we
coordinate so we can reach to areas
where there are so many dead bodies in
the
street and they say the Israelis are not
responding at
all and this is quite tragic and these
are considered war crimes to Target
Medical Teams yes to Target civilians
and to leave them under the rubble and
to leave the injured without any
possibility of access to them Maran we
really do appreciate your time and
explaining the situation as it is for
you and and your people working in uh
quite remarkable circumstances that is
Maran jalani director general of the
Palestine of red Cresent Society thank
you so
much thank
you well Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has reached to deal with the
leader of the opposition to form an
emergency wartime Unity government
eleras H abdalhamid is in West Jerusalem
and joins us now now uh hter can you
just explain a little bit more about
this war cabinet that was set up earlier
today and uh what power what control it
will have over Israel's
military well the agreement that was
reached between prime minister Netanyahu
and Benny Gans who's the leader of the
national Unity opposition party is to
form what is called an emergency Unity
government now within that emergency do
Unity government there are two different
forums or committees there what is could
be referred to as the war cabinet and
that is uh a restricted uh committee it
is a prime minister nanahu Benny Gans
the opposition leader the defense
minister yuav gal and then you have two
more people who are Danny Eisen c and a
former Israeli ambassador to the US who
are also sitting on that committee but
as uh observers now I think why the
formation of that gives prime minister
Netanyahu three people who actually have
extensive military uh knowledge because
whether it's Benny Gans or Danny as in
code both of them were former Chiefs of
Staff
and Benny Gans as well was defense
minister they will be in charge of the
war all the the important decisions of
the war the everyday planning of the war
you have then a larger uh a larger Forum
which is called the um political
security cabinet which includes all the
members of the ruling
Coalition the defense and intelligence
establishment added to that Benny Gans
and some members of his National Unity
party so you have these two together the
that is it it has several benefits that
Benjamin Netanyahu has his coalition
government but the very few members of
that government have actually military
experience so he stands all to gain from
bringing on board the the opposition
leader and picking his brain basically
on what to do next it also gives the
Israeli public the idea that at the
moment these politicians who are usually
at alls remember this country had five
elections in a span of four years only
just a week just days before the this uh
War started that they were still having
bitter fights they were weekly
demonstrations against um the Prime
Minister Netanyahu and his ruling
Coalition well at the moment the idea is
all this has gone We Stand United in
this time of Crisis something many
Israelis would tell you they wanted to
see because at the moment we are in this
phase two the the clearing of the bodies
the the death toll of what happened on
the first day of the attack is now
sortly kind of over the next phase is
being prepared and many think that that
would be a ground Invasion okay thank
you so much that is ABD Hamid for us in
West jerus
m a rocket fired from Gaza has hit a
hospital in the southern Israeli city of
ashalon no casualties have been reported
Hamas has launched a barrage of rockets
targeting ashalon most of them were
intercepted by Israel's Iron Dome
defense system but there are reports of
damage to some buildings in the city for
more on this Muhammad Jam Jun is in
ashdod southern Israel and uh Muhammad
what's the latest you're hearing about
these security incidents in the area in
the the South
there Tom let me walk you through uh the
various security alerts we've been
hearing about the last half an hour to
an hour um you have had rocket Sirens
going off in several different towns and
cities and communities in southern
Israel bordering the Gaza Strip among
them are n where we also learned from
the Israeli Army that there had been an
incident uh an exchange of fire between
Hamas Fighters and and Israeli Army
members the Israeli Army says that there
were three Hamas fighters in a vehicle
and that an Israeli army tank fired upon
them and that threat has been thwarted
we are trying to get more information
about that we'll get those details to
you as we have them another area where
there have been Sirens heard is stot and
another one is the city of ashalon which
you mentioned in your intro to me of
course there had been those rocket
strikes that hit ashalon which is about
10 to 15 kilometers south of where we
are here in ashod so a lot of tension in
that area of course a lot of people very
concerned about the fact that there have
been more reported incursions in various
areas in the South today by Hamas
Fighters we've heard about fighting
going on between Israeli Army members
and Hamas fighters in places like zakim
which is about 3 to 4 kmers north of the
Gaza Strip so a lot of tension still at
this hour about if there are more
incursions or if there are the threat of
incursions by Hamas fighter in these
areas so right now even though where we
are here in ashod where we did hear
rocket Sirens earlier in the day the
tension has lessened here but further on
South much higher tension at this hour
and a lot of security security incidents
going on as we are as we have been
informed by the Israeli Army thus far
with with so much going on how are
people reacting to it
there Tom I can tell you that everybody
that I've spoken with the past couple of
days in these areas in the South um they
are still dealing with a huge sense of
shock many of them telling me that they
have not yet fully really been able to
process the enormity of what has
happened what has transpired over the
course of these last several days since
Saturday um one of the things uh that is
that is seems to be um helping the
people that we're talking to here uh is
the fact that they are seeing uh more
and more members of the Israeli Army
being mobilized to the South you could
be anywhere in these areas and you see
what a mass mobilization it is going on
you see uh Army members you see
reservists you see police in all of
these areas you see them being
transported you seeing D you seeing them
driving driving themselves by car to
join up with their units uh so there is
this sort of rally around the flag
effect that's going on and so even the
people that we're speaking with that are
still shocked and concerned about what's
going on they are coming out a lot of
the time and showing their support for
the troops that they are seeing whether
it's by offering them water or food or
even sometimes blaring music uh I mean
there have been real scenes that we've
come across at times of really
heightened tensions the past couple of
days where you will see Cars full of
settlers coming to intersections where
there are members of the Israeli Army
and members of the reservist and they
will blast their speakers and get up on
the roofs of cars and dance it's it's a
very jarring thing to see at a time of
such high tension and uncertainty
everybody we've spoken with say they do
believe that an invasion a land uh
invasion of Gaza will be happening at
some point soon they don't know exactly
when of course the Israeli Army has not
announced that but the people we're
speaking with do believe that is going
to happen at some point quite soon Tom
okay thank you so much Muhammad we
really do appreciate you painting the
picture there for us and what it is like
in southern Israel
thanks well Israel's military says it's
recaptured some areas near the Gaza
border the village of kafara was among
the communities hit hardest when Hamas
launched its military operation on
Saturday as Charles statford reports
from the scen dozens of bodies have been
recovered Israel's military says it's is
back in control of kafar
AAR one of the many villages near the
Gaza border where Palestinian Fighters
got in but soldiers are nervous about
more infiltrations and Hamas gunmen
hiding in the surrounding
Fields heavy machine gun fire close by
and the bodies lying in the trees begin
to appear Palestinian Fighters and then
amongst the destruction of their homes
civilians soldiers lift the body bags on
stretches to a waiting truck there's
still grenades there's still bodies in
houses and slowly slowly we're now
clearing these communities whoever
survived this is already out of here
still counting the bodies
dozens weapons lie amongst the rubble a
destroyed paraglider on which one of the
fighters flew in the broken Security
Fence one of dozens of places
breached what you're looking at there is
one of the breach points through which
Hamas Fighters came into Israel there's
been a lot of Destruction here in the
village of kafar AAR we've seen a lot of
bodies and the military tell us that
they are not only Hamas Fighters but
foreign
workers and many Israeli
civilians the road to nearby stot is
littered with destroyed cars and more
bodies close by the smoldering ruins of
a Cosmetics Factory destroyed by one of
the thousands of rockets f from Gaza and
suddenly The Ripping sound of another
approaching
barrage filming keep filming keep
filming stop
shelter we've been in contact with
somebody that lived through that
nightmare
we need to kill them we need to strangle
them otherwise it will continue we can't
go back to giving them food water
Building Material really we should not
give them these
things the buildup of military equipment
near the border continues as Israel vows
Vengeance for an attack on a scale it
has never suffered before Charles stford
Al jazer kafar
AAR okay let's look at some of the
headlines today across Israel the
newspaper Israel H focuses on political
leadership saying the current government
is conspicuous by its absence it
highlights former prime minister gamir
going out to meet soldiers in the 1973
Arab Israeli War and says the essence of
leadership is to be on the ground with
the people a columnist for the haritz
daily has taken his criticism one step
further Z barel describes Benjamin n
yahu as a gang leader and reiterates the
paper calls for the prime minister to
resign the Jerusalem Post focuses on
warfare It quotes an officer who says
the Israeli Army is bombing entire
neighborhoods in Gaza to hit Hamas
positions but he says the campaign is
not the same as Hamas targeting
civilians on Saturday for Israel he
maintains there is always a military
Target but we are not being surgical
well similar arguments are made in the
online publication waa it's carrying an
interview with the general who says
civilians are not targets but also that
no warnings are given when forces are
targeting an enemy now a journalist for
the online magazine 972 questions a
report widely circulated on social media
on Tuesday alleging Hamas Fighters
beheaded babies in kafar AA in a post on
X Oren Z says the Israeli military
spokespeople he interviewed at the site
could not confirm the reports and
support from the White House is also on
the front pages The Times of Israel
interviewed US national National
Security Council spoke spokesman John
Kirby who says America shares Israel's
deep fear and anger now underlining the
unconditional relationship between the
two
countries Oman Bashar Al jazer senior
political analyst joins us once again on
Skype from Paris and M what do you make
of some of I guess the critical reaction
from the Israeli media what stands out
there for
you well clearly at this point in time
um there's one or two brother sober
media Outlets notably harit the most
professional newspaper in Israel um you
could you could call it the New York
Times of Israel uh and it has a number
of colonists and and reporters that tend
to be critical of the Netanyahu
government and tend to give a better
more uh Fair coverage uh of the uh of
the occupied Palestinian territories and
I think Z bared is one of their uh
senior uh commentators for a long time
he was editor of the Arab Affairs at the
newspaper and I think he does reflect uh
a certain criticism a certain critique
of prime minister Netanyahu that is um
is not widespread for the time being I
only heard mhi yon a former head of
intelligence who also shared uh it's
vel's appreciation that Netanyahu is a
failed leader and the last thing he
should be is a war leader uh because
certainly this whole thebuckle under
happened under his watch and there's a
major accusations built on the idea that
even Egypt uh has warned uh Israel of uh
of the coming attacks but uh because
Netanyahu refused to let uh the
intelligence Chiefs to come into the
cabinet meetings and update them on that
that basically Netanyahu failed not only
to stop this thing from happening he
only should have known about it at least
from the Egyptians and at Le he did
nothing about it the overall sentiments
in Israel as you know is more or less
rallying around the flag for the time
being accepting whatever government
there is as long as they can provide
some sense of security and take revenge
uh for the attacks in uh last weekend
and you would see people rally on the FL
around the flag and you would see the
likes of Gant and other joining the
government as long as War continues but
I think sooner or later Netanyahu will
be held accountable for his Fiasco aside
being held accountable for on all these
other in corruption charges that he's
indicted for now I want to read you a
statement from Hamas which has just
issued this in the last hour or so it's
rejecting allegations that it committed
crimes against women and children saying
and I quote some Western media Outlets
continue to spread Zion and slander and
L
about our Palestinian people and their
resistance which falsely and
slanderously promoted allegations that
members of the Palestinian resistance
beheaded children and assaulted women
without any evidence to support their
lies and claims Hamas strongly condemns
the baseless
allegations now M what do you make of
that obviously the pr and media battle
is going to be pretty vital here and
we're already hearing and seeing plenty
of misinformation being spread what if
anything do you think can be done about
that well you know uh we live in a world
of web and the virtual Realties nowadays
when it comes to information is more
important than the actual reality and as
soon as some news reports I think
including one from the Los Angeles Times
that came out about the beheading of the
baby they've been retracted from the
more professional press but I think they
took a life of their own uh online and
and then there is no stop uh to their
mutation and proliferation especially by
those who do intentionally want to
spread disinformation or those in Israel
and the United States who are making the
case for wider War beginning with land
invasion of Gaza uh there is or seems to
me my reading of the media in general
and some of the media pundits who are uh
Towing the line of the Israeli line and
the Biden Administration line seems to
be making this
false uh uh false comparison false in
equating of Hamas with alqa or Hamas
with Isis talking about 107 like it was
911 and uh talking about beheading of
babies and quoting the likes of
President Biden when he says the sole uh
reason for hamas's existence is to kill
Jews and that they have a slick PR like
Isis all of these rather false
statements uh tend to uh inflame the
souls and bring back uh that comparison
to 9911 and to the invasion of Iraq and
I think in in the most tragic and
saddest of ways I think some of the
media pundits and some of the people in
Israeli government and outside it are
trying to recreate the
atmosphere that was uh predominant prior
to the 2003 invasion of Iraq
I think they're preparing uh the
atmosphere among Israelis American
others for a more dramatic more
escalation that could also involve the
Americans whether it is in Lebanon or
elsewhere because now as you know we
have an East we have a a Naval Strike
Force and American n in the East
Mediterranean and I think all of that is
not only wrong and misinformation on all
of that it's also a tragic repetition of
a huge fiasco
of the 2003 war on against Iraq on
again on on false pretense and here we
go again they're building the case for
Iraq for for another war in Palestine
perhaps Lebanon and against Iran under
false pretend moan if I could briefly
just change teac a little bit the US
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin has
uh just jumped on a plane uh to head to
Israel what impact do you think his
visit will have and how big a role is
the US going to play here and the the
days and weeks and potentially months
ahead I was stunned uh and I'm not
easily stunned uh by President Biden's
speech yesterday it seemed to me that he
and today secretary blinkin were uh
repeating uh word for word uh the kind
of uh sound bites we hear from Netanyahu
Netanyahu has a very particular style of
talking of in s bites and inflaming the
souls and I think uh President Biden
used some of the same uh you know uh
sound bites that basically
disinformation from prime minister
nanaho I I will even go further to say
that I have I have a sense that prime
minister netan is manipulating the
American president and his secretary of
state into escalating and into
deploying a huge and modern new Naval
Strike Force in the East Mediterranean
and the idea that he could actually talk
them into giving green light to Israel
to the Netanyahu government this very
radical rather fanatic Neo fascist
government to do whatever it takes as
long as it takes in Gaza and Beyond
that's just a call for war crimes that
we've already seen happening the past 72
hours but even widening the war towards
land Invasion and perhaps opening
another front in the north against
Hezbollah and perhaps even going beyond
that because the idea of this warning
and ultimatum that Biden gave and that
linkoln repeated today about you know if
anyone thinking of taking advantage
don't right any you could expect any
sort of escalation between and Israel to
happen could be initiated by Israel or
by heah God knows right in the coming
days and that could basically draw in
the United States into another Regional
War now just quickly this is the
administration this is the president
American president who only recently
assured us that he is the president
who's going to end the forever wars in
the Middle East that he pulled out in
humiliation out of Afghanistan because
he's a man of his word now he wants to
start another Middle East war after the
2003 Fiasco in Iraq that would be a big
mistake okay Ma we really do appreciate
your Insight thank you so much that is
Maan bashara uh senior political analyst
for Al jazer
the Israeli Army is trying to calm fears
after a false alarm sent people
Nationwide scrambling for
[Music]
shelter the warning sirens rang out
across Northern Israel and flares were
fired at the border as people across the
country were told to seek shelter over a
possible aerial infiltration from
Lebanon the Army now says the Panic was
caused by human error well Ali hasham is
in the town of maahan in South Lebanon
near the border with Israel and there've
been plenty of moving Parts here with
alerts and fears that there had been an
incursion uh from Lebanon into Northern
Israel can you just recap for us exactly
what happened and and where things stand
now well we moved to nakura which is
also on the borders um well today was a
very hectic day it started with an hasah
attack on Israeli troops on the borders
mainly in DEA Village on the
borderline according to the pictures we
saw from
hisbah it seems that there was a direct
hit with guided missile um now following
that Israeli started shelling The
Villages surrounding the borders and um
there were two people injured now later
on this alarm came and there were these
reports about uh planes paragliders
Crossing towards the other side of the
Border however there was no uh genuine
reason to understand why this alarm is
coming out because uh none of these
parag gliders were seen uh with with
with eyes uh also at the same time these
paragliders the the alleged par
paragliders did not uh engage in a
battle or in a fight on the ground so
later on it was uh clarified that this
is not right however the Israeli Army
continued to uh launch uh uh floods in
the the Skies of South Lebanon also U
burning the bushes around the borders in
order to deny any Fighters a kind of a
cover just in case they're trying to
infiltrate uh the border so it was it
was a hectic day for for the Israeli
troops on the Lebanese side and this uh
clarifi the situation whereas the
tension is Moun day after day
so in comparison with yesterday when
Rockets were launched and hamas's alasam
brigades claimed responsibility or the
day before where a group from Islamic
Jihad infiltrated the borders and
engaged in a battle with the Israelis
today was a bigger day and it seems that
this tension is going to continue it's
not going to stop and at least from what
I understand this is going to continue
as far as the uh campaign on Gaza is
going to
continue and Ali what are the military
capabilities of hisbah I mean I know
you've covered many of the conflicts
that they've previously been involved in
what sort of Firepower could they bring
if they were to get fully involved in
this well over the past 13 years the
last the last time heah engaged in a war
with with Israel was in 20 6 and then
there were only 2,000 Fighters mean
professional fighters on the border with
maybe tens of thousands of uh Rockets
however now in 2023 hisbah says that
they have a tens of thousands of
Fighters and the number of their Rockets
isn't known however what we know from
Israeli claims and even from he's uh
statements that they have Precision uh
uh missile long range
missiles relatively uh and these
missiles are able to U hit any any spot
in in Israel and this is the main issue
the other the other side of the of the
picture is that he's Fighters over the
past years engaged in battles in
different terrains whereas they were in
Syria they went to Yemen they went to
Iraq so the experience they accumulated
over the past years is is big and and
that's why also Israel Israel is so
concerned now heah is not the only uh
party now in South Lebanon with the new
factor of the Palestinian factions
alasan brigades and Al brigades fighting
from leanon as we saw in the past few
days okay thanks so much for that Ali
that is Ali Hashim for us in the south
of
Lebanon well the first shipment of US
military aid has arrived in Israel this
comes after prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu who promised to escalate the
bombardment of Gaza President Joe Biden
has expressed his full support for
Israel US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin has left on a diplomatic Mission
to Israel he gave a brief statement at
Joint Base Andrews before
departing the United States has Israel's
back we have the back of the Israeli
people we have their back today we'll
have it tomorrow we will have it every
day we stand resolutely against
terrorism we've seen the almost
undescribable acts committed by Hamas
against Israeli men women and children
every day we're learning more and it is
simply
heartbreaking not since Isis have we
seen this kind of depravity and we will
continue to stand very resolutely
against it uh when I'm in Israel I'll
have the opportunity to meet with prime
minister Netanyahu president Herzog uh
other senior officials uh I look forward
to seeing our Embassy team uh as well
that's been doing terrific work during
uh these difficult days um we're
determined to make sure that Israel gets
everything it needs to defend itself to
provide for the security of its people
already significant military assistance
requested by Israel is on the way that's
on top of everything that we've been
doing uh for years including with the
memorandum of understanding that was
negotiated by President Obama uh to make
sure that Israel has what it needs to
defend
itself okay Patty Khan joins me now from
Washington DC and we we have a bit idea
now of the military aid the US is
sending to Israel but what is blinkin
hoping to achieve by going
himself well by going himself it's
simply a show of support a show of
solidarity uh and he also I think is
going to be having discussions about the
next step forward so his plane is wheels
up now and then he's going to be in
Israel for those meetings in the morning
we expect he'll also stop in Jordan the
big question I'm looking for is if they
add a stop in Egypt now after covering a
policy officials here in Washington for
quite a while one thing I look for is
when everybody is on the same page with
a statement that they repeat verbatim
we've now heard from the president from
the secretary of state from the National
Security adviser the National Security
spokesman saying that the difference
between Hamas and Israel is that Israel
follows the laws uh that govern conflict
armed armed conflict and there's been a
lot of criticism uh of from some of the
administration because they haven't
urged Israel to show restraint but what
we're seeing now is them talking about
they want a civilian Corridor that would
that's where Egypt comes in theyve all
been talking repeatedly over the last
two days even more so today about how
they are engaged in high level talks to
make that happen because obviously the
laws of war say you can't Target
civilians civilians can't get out of
Gaza because they are trapped there so
that Corridor I I think is one way
they're signaling by using that
statement that is Israel follows the
rules of law would it could apply to
that quarter but also the total blockade
of Gaza that is a war crime that goes
against all of the Gen Geneva Convention
the laws of war so it's could be a
subtle hint to Israel that they're going
to want to see some moves in that
direction and uh Petty blinkin also
talked about trying to get a safe
passage opened up for
civilians uh in Gaza to to somehow get
out what did he say about that
he said that these are long difficult
complicated discussions and that you he
was asked of the Israel is holding it up
and he said I'm not going to get into
that but it's very clear that that is
now a priority of the administration
when it comes to the idea of Munitions
it's a concern here in the in DC because
remember the US has been supplying
massive amounts of artillery and
ammunition to Ukraine and there have
been questions even before this happened
in Israel as to whether they were going
to be able to keep up the supplies I've
been speaking with Pentagon as my in my
role as defense correspondent and
officials there still say off camera
that they are confident that they can
meet both needs they talk about having
global stockpiles all over the world but
they've been really vague about what
Israel is going to ask for the only
thing they've been specifically saying
is Munitions that go into the Iron Dome
air defense system but if there is an
incursion uh by Israeli forces into Gaza
I can tell you that street to street
fighting in densely populated areas is
very much a disadvantage to Israeli
forces so if they are going to be
talking about that you'll likely see
requests for things like better body
armor night vision uh you know Small
Arms ammunition so being very vague
about it but we'll try and find out some
more okay thank you so much uh Petty
that is petty khim for us in Washington
DC at the United Nations rad manur the
permanent Observer of Palestine to the
UN called on the International Community
to help the Palestinian
people there has to be a humanitarian
intervention in order to uh to avoid uh
a looming catastrophe and humanitarian
massive crisis in the Gaza Strip we will
continue with these efforts with
everyone uh I understand that the Arab
uh uh emergency ministerial meeting just
concluded few minutes go in Cairo we
will study what the outcome and see how
we can fit all these things with our
activities and our contacts with all
concerned parties here at the United
Nations we hope very soon that the
International Community led by the SG
led by the security Council will rise up
to the to their responsibilities and
begin with the process of sending
humanitarian help and assistance
to uh the Palestinian people in the Gaza
Strip ranzi is live for us at the United
Nations and as we heard there the
Palestinian ambassador to the UN calling
for humanitarian intervention I mean How
likely is that to happen at this point
in
time well at the very least we do have
some breaking news for you about the
responsibilities of the UN Security
Council that the Palestinian Ambassador
there just mentioned in the last few
minutes we just heard from a source that
Brazil brail who is currently holding
has the presidency of the security
Council has circulated a memo to the
other members of the security Council
saying there will be a security council
meeting on the current conflict on
Friday at 300 p.m. local 1900 GMT we
don't know what the format of that
meeting will be we don't know whether
it'll be open or closed we don't know
who will be allowed to attend or who
will be briefing it but the security
Council will have another meeting on on
this conflict in on Friday following
their closed consultations that we saw
on Sunday beyond that as far as the
United Nations and its responsibilities
are concerned we do have some movement
from the Secretary General of the UN who
for the first time called for water and
food to be allowed into Gaza now and
that is a that's movement from his
statement on Monday when all he would
say was he was distressed by news of the
the the the the um the renewed Siege on
Gaza with with electricity and food
which was you know some conation as a
result because clearly this is
completely in violation of the Geneva
conventions proportionality and so on so
now at least the Secretary General is
calling for food and water to be allowed
into Gaza now so movement there and also
movement from the security Council a
meeting will be held on Friday at 1900
GMT okay thank you so much for that
update we really do appreciate it that
is shiha pranzi for us at the United
Nations well m zi joins us in our studio
in Doha thank you very much for for
being with us once again now we heard a
little bit about the Diplomatic efforts
from
Palestinians do you believe that they're
going to be listened to by the
International Community or are they
going to fall on deaf airs do you think
there is no doubt the Diplomatic effort
started in the last 24 hours there's a
lot of criticism from the Europeans um
even for the first time we start hearing
from Washington that talking about
international law talking about behaving
as a state respecting international law
um these are new terminologies in the
last uh few days I think there is from
what they are watching on what happened
in Gaza the the level of the damage and
destroying happened and the the
casualties and all of this is pushing
the International Community to do
something and that's the reason I think
I think plinking in in the region is not
only just to please Israelis is Al also
to pressure Israelis because because he
knows and his administration knows that
uh nyaho government did not listen to
their advice to avoid
such an an incident so basically I think
there is an a diplomatic effort will
continue to at least to open a gate for
humanitarian Aid to get to Gaza m z
thank you once again for for explaining
the situation thanks so much well
Israeli settlers have killed at least
four Palestinians in attacks on a
village south of nablas in the occupied
West Bank the Palestinian Health
Ministry says Israeli forces have also
killed a 16-year-old boy near hibron 29
Palestinians have been killed in the
occupied West Bank since the War Began
on
Saturday well hundreds of Palestinian
workers from Gaza are stranded after
they were dismissed from their jobs in
Israel they were left at checkpoints
near the occupied West Bank on Saturday
and are unable to return to their homes
Imran Khan reports from rala
cut off from their homes this has become
a makeshift home for some Palestinians
from the Gaza Strip it was a local
government building designed for sports
and arts it's now a camp for displaced
people there isn't a person here whose
family hasn't been touched by this
war my brothers and cousins called me
and told me my son was injured a few
hours later they called again and told
me he was killed I want to go see him
his mother is in Egypt for medical
treatment she's stuck there and I'm
stuck here
he will be buried and I won't see him my
other two children are Sheltering in
schools
alone others tell us they have lost
multiple members of their families most
don't know if they'll have a home to
return
to these men were employed under an
agreement Israel made with the Gaza
labor Ministry which allowed a set
number of people to work in Israel it
was a good deal for Israel businesses
got cheap labor and could circumvent
labor laws the Israeli government could
say it was doing something to help Gaza
but on Saturday employers acting on
Israeli police instructions were told to
take them to checkpoints at the occupied
West Bank before that happened we are
told some were interrogated and
assaulted by the Israeli Security
Services a claim we cannot confirm the
influx has taken the Palestinian
authorities by surprise and they
woefully unprepared we need to maintain
the health Factor very importantly in
this location we are talking about as we
speak 550 this number might just rise to
a 700 or maybe a thousand because people
are keep they are keeping pouring once
they are discovered inside Israel handed
over to the Israeli military and they
they are just simply left after being
beaten and humilated on the checkpoints
to find their way to this to this
shelters everyone here is watching the
news on their mobile phones but unlike
URI they're not watching for the news
they're watching their homes being
destroyed in real time they can't get
home and there's nothing they can do
about it Imran Khan Al jazer r
is back with us in the studio just
watching that story what do you make of
that how big an issue is that going to
be in the in the weeks and and months
ahead people not being able to earn a
living it is a big issue because
basically we know that thousand thousand
of G of gazan people they are working
inside Israel and they have sort of
permissions to work in Gaza in in inside
Israel and those people now um they they
they are they are humilated by by by the
by Israeli side but more importantly the
Israeli economy is losing them as well
so it is both sides are losing actually
of course the humanitarian side on and
Gaza is pushing those people to feel
more sad more disconnected with their
families and they pay a heavy price they
lost their job and they lost their
families as well that is a very sad
story and this is one of the
ramification of this conflict yeah we
just want to go back a little bit
Anthony blinkin the Secretary of State
for the United States is flying to
Israel as we speak he mentioned before
he took off that talks are underway but
haven't fully developed at this stage
into trying to open up a safe passage
for civilians within Gaza to somehow get
out how vital how important is that and
what would be some of the the uh the
blocks to that actually happening do you
think you know we know that the only
gate now is open is is with Egypt so so
basically the only opportunity is to to
work and coordinate with Egypt so they
can get some humanitarian Aid to Gaza or
actually there are thousand of of of
sick people they have to go also for
medication so I think the the debate has
started already is how to open that I
would say uh Communications and allow
some uh food and and and water to get to
Gaza and the issue is how can you
sustain this is about sustainability
it's not only just getting it one time
you need to keep it running especially
we know that at least in the last three
days the water is cut theity is cut so
the suffering is increasing rapidly
basically yeah and it doesn't look like
it's going to get better anytime soon
only only going to continue getting
thanks so much thank
you we've been keeping across the
extensive damage caused by Israel's
rocket attacks on Gaza over the past few
days Israel began their strikes on
Saturday following the start of an
operation carried out by Hamas the
images before the attacks are of
different locations within Gaza in May
this year now gaza's old city is one of
the areas which endured heavy damage
from these attacks these are images of
damage to the Susi mosque inside the
Shanti refugee camp close to the
coastline well Palestinian photographer
MZ Aiza gives us a glimpse of the sheer
Devastation in some of the most iconic
neighborhoods of
Gaza I'm here today to show you the
massive destruction that happened to the
the most beautiful areas and strip in
Gaza
City as as you can
see uh I'm speechless I don't know what
to say I don't know what should I
say but believe me it's the
most sadness that Gaza ever
had oh my God oh my
God
it's like a whole Square more than
15 15 to 20 hav got demolished not
destroyed
demolished okay uh I want to talk a
little bit uh muu about what you think
is going to happen now that the power
has been cut off how quickly are things
going to deteriorate in Gaza um let's
imagine hospitals how they will function
you know you can't imagine there are a
lot of a lot of medicine they need to be
put in in in a fridge that's that's the
basic things you have a lot of people
are you dying and you need you need to
make sure that you know this you know
the places to to keep them are are are
are basically fine so there are a lots
of limitation a lot of pressure is
happening now you need to make sure that
you know there is enough food for those
who are in hospital the number of
casualties more than five around 5,000
and those are staying in hospitals they
need to be feeded they need to water
they need uh uh medicines so the the
issue is deteriorated quickly actually
and the more or the the more exity will
be cut the the the problem will be
actually adding adding more to the
people suffering and will and I I would
I would I would say that we will we will
have more impact on people's life as
well in terms of getting humanitarian
Aiden who who Bears responsibility for
trying to get that in does that fall on
the UN
un is involved they are support because
if they coordinate with Egypt
governments will work with Egypt and
there is a talk about Al arish airport
which is close to Gaza and this
basically they will send all the
humanitarian Aid there and then get it
from Egypt to uh Gaza so United Nation
is involved Egyptian government is
involved I'm sure there are other
governments they will be involved in
getting all of this humanitarian aid but
the issue is you know they they need to
do this quickly because because the
suffering of the people is increasing
rapidly because of all of these um
attacks on on civilians and and and
buildings where there is no military
targets yeah thank you so much we really
do appreciate your time and your insight
into this developing situation that is
maub zeri uh director of the gulf
studies Center well stay with us we have
much more on the developing situation in
Gaza
[Music]